# CRUD Quiz

Use the solution to this afternoon's Property Tracker lab to answer the following questions. Please write your answers under each question, push the file to GitHub, and submit in the usual way.

## MVP Questions

In our Property Tracker application:

Q1. Where are we instantiating instances of the `Property` class?

#A1. In the console.rb file.



Q2. Where are we defining the SQL that enables us to save the ruby `Property` object into the database?

# The SQL is defined within the save method in property.rb



Q3. In console.rb, which lines modify the database?

#house1.save()
#house2.save()

#p Property.find(15)

#p Property.find_by_address('5 house street')

# house1.delete()


Q4. Why do we not define the id of a `Property` object at the point we instantiate it (‘new it up’)?

# we don't define the id when we create the instance as it is assigned by the database to avoid human error.


Q5. Where and how do we assign the id (that is generated by the database) to the ruby `Property` object?

#when we add the porperty to the database within the save method. We return the id within a hash nested in an array. Then the id is set the id equal to the array at index position [0] and key [:id]

Q6. Why do we put a guard (an `if` clause) on the `@id` attribute in the constructor?

# So when we create a new instance of property it doesn't try to turn null into an int which in ruby gives us 0?

Q7. Why are some of the CRUD actions represented by instance methods, and others by class methods?

#class methods are used when you want to alter all entries or find an entry. instance methods are for altering or adding one entry.

Q8. What type of data structure is returned by calls to `db.exec_prepared()`? In the `save` method, how do we access the id from the returned data structure?

# an array of hashes is returned so we access the id via index position [0] and the key ['id']

Q9. Why do we use prepared statements when performing database operations?

#prepared statements clean our code to avoid someone entering sql commands in their entries and it also makes the code more readable.

## Extension Questions

Look at the `find_by_id` and `find_by_address` methods in the `Property` class.

Q10. What do they take in as their arguments?

#find by id takes in an integer as an argument and find by address takes in a string

Q11. What are their return values?

#they return an object of the property class formed by mapping over the hash returned by the database.
